this meeting of the ctas county commission will come to order
ensure that a majority of the members are present
this is sort of a short cut way that is commonly used for approval of minutes and/or the agenda be approved so moved seconded the agenda has been moved and seconded that the agenda be approved as received by the members
all those in favor signify by saying aye ? opposed by saying no ? the agenda is approved
any further corrections ? seeing none without objection the minutes of the last meeting will stand approved as read
are there any corrections or additions to the last meeting ? mister chairman my name has been omitted from the special committee on indigent care thank you
if there are no objections the minutes of the last meeting will be corrected to include the name of commissioner mccroskey
will the clerk please take the vote this resolution passes
commissioner adkins the first item on the agenda is yours mister chairman i would like to make a motion to approve the resolution taking money from the data processing reserve account in the county clerk 's office and moving it to the equipment line to purchase a laptop computer i second the motion this resolution has a motion and second
at we last meeting commissioner mckee has moved to withdraw your motion to sell property near the airportthe airport was deferred to our last meeting commissioner mckee
the two-thirds requirement is for the general sessions taxes other questions or discussion ? commissioner rodgers ' i move adopton of the resolution previously provided to each of you to increase the state match local litigation tax in circuit chancery and criminal cases in courts of record going to fund the sheriff 's department
this resolution calls for the increases to go to the general fund commissioner duckett i move an amendment to the motion to sell property near the airport has been made and seconded to amend the motion to increase the state match local litigation taxes to the maximum amounts to require 25 percent of the proceeds from the increase in the tax on criminal cases in courts of record going to fund the sheriff 's department
discussion will begin after we have a second
is there a second ? for purposes of discussion i second the motion commissioner rodgers ' is recognized speaks about the data on collections handing out all sorts of numerical figures regarding the litigation tax and the county 's need for additional revenue
any discussion ? will all those in favor of previous question please raise your hand ? all those opposed please raise your hand
we are now on a motion as amended
any further discussion ? does this require a two-thirds vote ? will the county attorney answer that question ? since these are only courts of record a majority vote will pass a majority vote
will all those in favor please vote as the clerk calls your name those in favor vote aye those against vote no
nine votes for nine votes against one not voting
any discussion ? at this point numerous county commissioners speak for and against increasing the wheel tax and making up the education cuts
this is the first time this resolution is under consideration
commissioner hayes is recognized i move previous question second previous question has been moved and seconded
you should vote yes or no on this resolution us
is there any other new business ? since no member is seeking recognition are there announcements ? commissioner hailey there will be a meeting of the budget committee to look at solid waste funding recommendations on tuesday july 16 at noon here in this room any other announcements ? the next meeting of this body will be monday august 19 at 7 p
commissioner carmical there will be a chili supper at county elementary school on august 16 at 6 commissioner austin move adjournment second without objection the next meeting of this body will stand adjourned
